
CASE: KENNETH F. WINSTON v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
No. 2886-01-1
DATE: JULY 30, 2002
----------
COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA PRIVATE  


Present:  Judges Frank, Humphreys and Agee
Argued at Chesapeake, Virginia



    MEMORANDUM OPINION* BY
    JUDGE ROBERT P. FRANK

ENNETH F. WINSTON 
v. 
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
                                                                       

        FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE CITY OF HAMPTON
Walter J. Ford, Judge

                Charles E. Haden for appellant.

                Kathleen B. Martin, Assistant Attorney 
General (Jerry W. Kilgore, Attorney General, 
on brief), for appellee.



        Kenneth F. Winston (appellant) was convicted in a bench trial 
of two counts of robbery, in violation of Code  18.2-58, and two 
counts of use of a firearm in the commission of a robbery, in 
violation of Code  18.2-53.1.  On appeal, he contends the trial 
court erred in denying his motion to strike because the evidence 
was not sufficient to convict.  Finding no error, we affirm the 
convictions.

ANALYSIS
        Appellant contends the victims' identifications of him as the 
robber were unreliable, citing the criteria in Neil v. Biggers, 
409 U.S. 188 (1972), and, therefore, were insufficient as a matter 
of law to convict him.  Although appellant does not challenge the 
admissibility of the identifications,  the factors enunciated in 
Biggers may be considered, along with other evidence, in 
determining the sufficiency of identification evidence.  See 
Smallwood v. Commonwealth, 14 Va. App. 527, 530, 418 S.E.2d 567, 
568 (1992).  These factors include:
the opportunity of the witness to view the 
criminal at the time of the crime, the 
witness' degree of attention, the accuracy 
of the witness' prior description of the 
criminal, the level of certainty 
demonstrated by the witness at the 
confrontation, and the length of time 
between the crime and the confrontation.
Biggers, 409 U.S. at 199-200.
        "On appeal, 'we review the evidence in the light most 
favorable to the Commonwealth, granting to it all reasonable 
inferences fairly deducible therefrom.'"  Archer v. 
Commonwealth, 26 Va. App. 1, 11, 492 S.E.2d 826, 831 (1997) 
(quoting Martin v. Commonwealth, 4 Va. App. 438, 443, 358 S.E.2d 
415, 418 (1987)).  When the sufficiency of the evidence is 
challenged on appeal, we "look to that evidence which tends to 
support the verdict and . . . permit the verdict to stand unless 
plainly wrong."  Snyder v. Commonwealth, 202 Va. 1009, 1016, 121 
S.E.2d 452, 457 (1961).  "The judgment of a trial court sitting 
without a jury is entitled to the same weight as a jury verdict 
and will not be set aside unless . . . plainly wrong or without 
evidence to support it."  Martin, 4 Va. App. at 443, 358 S.E.2d 
at 418.  The "credibility of a witness, the weight accorded the 
testimony, and the inferences to be drawn from proven facts are 
matters solely for the factfinder's determination."  Keyes v. 
City of Virginia Beach, 16 Va. App. 198, 199, 428 S.E.2d 766, 
767 (1993).  
        "[W]hether an identification is reliable 'depends on the 
totality of the circumstances.'"  Satcher v. Commonwealth, 244 
Va. 220, 250, 421 S.E.2d 821, 839 (1992) (quoting Stovall v. 
Denno, 388 U.S. 293, 302 (1967)).  A witness' degree of 
attention and ability to observe weigh heavily in determining 
the reliability of the identification.  Here, each victim had 
the opportunity to view the robber.  Both victims were robbed 
during daylight hours.  The victims stood close enough to the 
perpetrator to hand him their wallets.  
        The robbery of Edwin Kilgore took "less than half a 
minute."  The robber wore a stocking cap, and his face was 
exposed.  Shortly after the robbery, Kilgore described his 
assailant as an African-American, between 180 and 190 pounds, 
"probably six foot [sic]" tall, wearing dark clothes.  When 
asked at trial, "How can you be certain that the person who 
robbed you is [appellant]," Kilgore responded, "[W]ell, I will 
never forget that face, I don't think.  It is a lasting 
impression." 
        Ashton Brown, the second victim, saw appellant before the 
commission of the crime, noticing a "tall, large person" on a 
small bicycle riding past his house twice.  At that time, 
appellant was wearing a cap.  Brown testified that, although the 
perpetrator wore a ski mask when he committed the robbery, his 
eyes and nose were exposed.  The robber was on the same bicycle 
that appellant rode just minutes earlier.  This robbery lasted 
"less than five minutes."  
        Brown described his assailant shortly after the incident, 
saying he was dressed in a "heavy, bulky jacket" and weighed 220 
to 230 pounds.  When confronted with appellant's assertion that 
he weighed much less, Brown explained the robber wore a "bulky 
outfit.  I thought he was filling that out, but evidently, he 
wasn't."  At trial, appellant testified he weighed 170 pounds. 
        We cannot say, as a matter of law, that the victims' 
testimony was inherently incredible merely because they were 
mistaken about appellant's precise height and weight.  The 
differences between the victims' descriptions and the actual 
appearance of appellant go to the weight of the evidence.  See 
Satcher, 244 Va. at 249, 421 S.E.2d at 838-39.  The trial judge 
was capable of "measur[ing] intelligently the weight of 
identification testimony that ha[d] some questionable feature."  
Manson v. Brathwaite, 432 U.S. 98, 116 (1977).
        Each victim demonstrated a high level of certainty in 
identifying appellant from the photo spread and in court.  
Kilgore, approximately a week after the robbery, was shown a 
photo spread.  He identified appellant within two or three 
minutes.  Brown, who viewed the photo spread two or three days 
after the robbery, "cut a piece of paper that would only show 
his -- not the man's whole head but just [his eyes and nose].  
And from that, I picked this individual out."  
        Appellant argues, since Brown testified he was not "a 
hundred percent certain that [appellant] was [the assailant]," 
the evidence was insufficient.  Nevertheless, Brown confidently 
and positively identified appellant in the photo spread and in 
court.  Appellant presents no law, nor can we find any, that 
requires one hundred percent certainty in the identification of 
a perpetrator.  The standard for guilt is beyond a reasonable 
doubt, not absolute certainty.  See Victor v. Nebraska, 511 U.S. 
1, 12 (1994).  
        Appellant also argues the length of time between the 
robberies and the identifications from the photo spread makes 
the identifications unreliable.  However, in McCary v. 
Commonwealth, 228 Va. 219, 234, 321 S.E.2d 637, 645 (1984), the 
Supreme Court found that, although fifteen months had elapsed 
from the crime to the identification, "the mere passage of time 
is insufficient to invalidate the identification."  We do not 
believe the passage of a week makes these identifications 
inherently unreliable.
        Finally, appellant argues Brown's identification is 
unreliable because "Brown's belief that God led him to identify 
the right person is simply an unacceptable basis for making an 
eyewitness identification."  This argument mischaracterizes 
Brown's testimony.
        When asked on cross-examination what made him "a hundred 
percent" certain of his identification when he was not so 
certain at the preliminary hearing, Brown explained:
[F]ollowing the incident, I prayed and I 
asked the Lord to apprehend the man that had 
done this to me for his own safety as well 
as the safety of someone else, because I 
felt that if this continues, he is going to 
meet someone who is going to either be hurt 
or him [sic] be hurt.  When the officer came 
and told me that they had apprehended a 
gunman, I believed that was an answer to my 
prayer.
When asked again, "You still can't say with a hundred percent 
certainty that [appellant] was the person that robbed you; isn't 
that true," Brown answered:
Because I only saw this, but I believe that 
the God I serve answers prayer.  And I 
didn't ask for it for a selfish reason, but 
I didn't ask him to do it to get my money 
back.  I didn't do it for - but for his own 
safety and the safety of someone else.  And 
that is the way I believe it happened.  And 
that's why I'm confident. . . . I can tell 
you today that I, as an individual cannot 
say that as a hundred percent because I did 
not see the person without the mask.  
        This testimony does not suggest Brown identified appellant 
"because God had told him this was the robber," as appellant 
suggests.  Brown clearly identified appellant from a photo 
spread based on his observations prior to and during the 
robbery, not because of his religious beliefs.  Instead, Brown's 
testimony made clear, while personally he was certain appellant 
was the man who robbed him, his identification was not "a 
hundred percent" certain because the assailant was wearing a 
mask.  
        All of the Biggers factors support the reliability of the 
identifications.  Based on the totality of the circumstances, we 
hold the identification testimony was reliable and sufficient to 
support the trial court's findings.
        Further, non-identification evidence in the record supports 
the finding of guilt.  Detective Barger interviewed appellant 
and asked him if he knew anything about "the guy on a bike" who 
had committed the robberies.  Appellant replied, "With a gun?"  
Appellant then stated that a friend told him about someone 
committing robberies while riding a bike.  Appellant also told 
Barger that his friend said "to be careful because the guy on 
the bike looked exactly like [appellant]."  The trial court 
could view this evidence as indicative of appellant's 
involvement in the robberies because he knew a gun was used.  
"In its role of judging witness credibility, the fact finder is 
entitled to disbelieve the self-serving testimony of the accused 
and to conclude that the accused is lying to conceal his guilt."  
Marable v. Commonwealth, 27 Va. App. 505, 509-10, 500 S.E.2d 
233, 235 (1998).
        Additionally, the witnesses' identifications serve as 
evidence for each robbery.  While other crimes evidence 
generally is not admissible, appellant did not object to its use 
here.  Other crimes evidence is admissible, as an exception to 
the general prohibition, to prove identity "where the prior 
criminal acts are so distinctive as to indicate a modus 
operandi."  Sutphin v. Commonwealth, 1 Va. App. 241, 245-46, 337 
S.E.2d 897, 899 (1985).  The distinction must be unusual, such 
that the manner in which the crime is committed creates a 
"signature" of the accused.  Henderson v. Commonwealth, 5 
Va. App. 125, 128, 360 S.E.2d 876, 878 (1987).
        Here, the similarities are numerous and unusual.  First, 
both crimes occurred in the morning, in the driveway of a home 
in the Wythe area of Hampton.  Both male victims were bent over, 
working on their cars, when the robber approached.  The robber 
used a gun in both crimes.  The robber asked for the victims' 
wallets and money, nothing else.  He took nothing else.  
Finally, and most unusually, the robber rode up to the scene on 
a bicycle, left it on the ground as he approached the victims, 
and then rode it away.  This evidence is sufficiently 
distinctive to establish a modus operandi.  See, e.g., Yellardy 
v. Commonwealth, 38 Va. App. 19, 24-25, 561 S.E.2d 739, 742 
(2002) (finding evidence of two robberies relevant to the issue 
of identity where the robber used "identical methods," including 
using a rock as a weapon).
        Appellant argues his alibi evidence was credible, but the 
trial court was free to reject that testimony.  "When weighing 
the evidence, the fact finder is not required to accept entirely 
either the Commonwealth's or the defendant's account[, but 
instead] . . . may reject that which it finds implausible, [and] 
accept other parts which it finds to be believable."  Pugliese 
v. Commonwealth, 16 Va. App. 82, 92, 428 S.E.2d 16, 24 (1993) 
(citations omitted).  In resolving an identification/alibi 
conflict, the trial court is the fact finder and, as such, 
assesses the credibility of the witnesses, which we will not 
disturb unless plainly wrong or without evidence to support it.  
See Yates v. Commonwealth, 4 Va. App. 140, 143, 355 S.E.2d 14, 
16 (1987).
        Appellant invites us to rule that eyewitnesses' 
identifications are "notoriously unreliable" and insufficient to 
support a conviction, citing United States v. Wade, 388 U.S. 218 
(1967).  We decline that invitation.  We first note appellant 
has taken the quotation out of context.  Wade addressed the need 
for counsel at a post-indictment lineup that used an unduly 
suggestive procedure.  While initially the Supreme Court 
suggested eyewitness identification is unreliable, the Court 
then explained this concern applies in the specific context of 
suggestive lineups.  They said, "A major factor contributing to 
the high incidence of miscarriage of justice from mistaken 
identification has been the degree of suggestion inherent in the 
manner in which the prosecution presents the suspect to 
witnesses for pretrial identification."  Id. at 228-29.  
Further, appellant can point to no court that, as a matter of 
law, refuses to allow any eyewitness testimony on identification 
of a perpetrator.
        The trial judge accepted the identification testimony of 
Kilgore and Brown.  "The credibility of the witnesses and the 
weight accorded the evidence are matters solely for the fact 
finder who has the opportunity to see and hear that evidence as 
it is presented."  Sandoval v. Commonwealth, 20 Va. App. 133, 
138, 455 S.E.2d 730, 732 (1995).  Although in some circumstances 
identification testimony can be unreliable and insufficient to 
support a conviction, see Smallwood, 14 Va. App. at 530-33, 418 
S.E.2d at 568-70, the testimony of the victims here was 
competent and was not inherently incredible.  
Conclusion
        From the identification testimony, appellant's statements, 
and other evidence, the trial judge could conclude beyond a 

reasonable doubt that appellant committed the charged offenses.  
We affirm the convictions.
 Affirmed.  
* Pursuant to Code  17.1-413, this opinion is not 
designated for publication. 
  Appellant does not contend the identification procedures 
were unduly suggestive or that the process was improper.

 

 
%%%

