
CASE: SEPEDRA HARRISON v. ROBERT E. RUBIN
No. 98-5019
DATE: JANUARY 29, 1999
----------
                        United States Court of Appeals


                     FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT


              Argued January 29, 1999      Decided May 7, 1999 


                                 No. 98-5019



                             Sepedra Harrison, 

                                  Appellant


                                      v.


                 Robert E. Rubin, Secretary of the Treasury, 

                  United States Department of the Treasury, 

                                   Appellee


                   Appeal from the United States District 

                     Court for the District of Columbia 

                               (No. 95cv02256)



     Gregory L. Lattimer argued the cause and filed the briefs 
for appellant.

     Eric M. Jaffe, Assistant U.S. Attorney, argued the cause 
for appellee.  With him on the brief were Wilma A. Lewis, 
U.S. Attorney, Mark E. Nagle and R. Craig Lawrence, 
Assistant U.S. Attorneys.


     Before:  Edwards, Chief Judge, Ginsburg and Tatel, 
Circuit Judges.

     Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge Tatel.

Tatel, Circuit Judge:  Appealing the dismissal of her em-
ployment discrimination case, appellant argues that the dis-
trict court abused its discretion in denying her motion to 
amend her complaint to correct an erroneous statutory cita-
tion.  She also argues that the district court erred in finding 
her claims of race discrimination and retaliation barred by a 
settlement agreement.  We agree with appellant regarding 
the motion to amend:  Absent evidence of prejudice, delay--
the only reason given by the district court--cannot justify 
denying a motion to amend to clarify the legal basis for a 
complaint.  Unable to assess on appeal the extrinsic evidence 
necessary to determine precisely which administrative com-
plaint and which incidents were in fact covered by the settle-
ment agreement, we reverse the dismissal of appellant's Title 
VII claims and remand to the district court for further 
proceedings.

                                      I


Appellant Sepedra Harrison, an African-American female 
employee of the Internal Revenue Service, began working in 
1991 as a secretary for Michael Sincavage, the Chief of the 
Office of Disclosure.  In 1992, she filed a complaint with the 
agency's EEO office, alleging that she had been passed over 
for a promotion in favor of a less experienced white woman.  
Several months later, while Harrison's complaint was pend-
ing, Sincavage detailed her to the Tax Check Unit where, 
according to Harrison, the work was more stressful and her 
mental and physical health began to deteriorate.  She claims 
that although she made her health problems known to Sinca-
vage and others and repeatedly a requested a transfer out of 
the Tax Check Unit, the agency refused until she was "forced 
to the point of a breakdown."  Complaint p 19.  Yet nonmi-
nority employees suffering similar health problems, she says, 
were transferred immediately.

In informal and formal EEO complaints, Harrison alleged 
that during her detail to the Tax Check Unit, as well as after 
her September 1993 transfer back to the Office of Disclosure, 
Sincavage and others harassed her, threatened to discipline 
her, and subjected her to discriminatory working conditions.  
Under IRS EEO procedures, before the agency will accept a 
formal complaint for investigation, an employee must file an 
informal complaint;  informal complaints require "informal 
pre-complaint EEO counseling."  Dep't of the Treasury, Indi-
vidual Complaint of Employment Discrimination (notice on 
form).

Exactly how many formal and informal complaints Harri-
son filed during this period and precisely what they alleged is 
not at all clear.  Her affidavit and interrogatory answers 
refer to a September 20 informal complaint, which became 
formal on November 22, and a December 1 informal com-
plaint, which apparently concerned retaliation for making the 
first complaint formal.  Yet Harrison's reply brief accuses the 
government of "erroneously" stating that she filed EEO 
complaints on November 22 and December 1 (the same dates 
mentioned in her own affidavit and interrogatory answers).  
And Harrison's reply brief mentions for the first time a 
November 15 informal complaint.

Because of the confusion about Harrison's administrative 
complaints, and because only the November 15 complaint was 
included in the record, we asked the parties at oral argument 
to give us copies of all relevant complaints.  In response, they 
submitted the September 20 informal complaint, the Novem-
ber 22 formal complaint, and another copy of the November 
15 informal complaint.  However, they did not submit a 
December 1 complaint, even though they had repeatedly 
referred to one, or a pre-November 15 formal complaint, even 
though the November 15 complaint alleges retaliation for 
having filed an earlier formal complaint.

While Harrison's various complaints were being investigat-
ed, the IRS and Harrison signed a settlement agreement 
dated January 6, 1994.  Titled "Precomplaint Agreement in 
the Discrimination Complaint of Sepedra E. Harrison," the 
agreement does not indicate which complaints or incidents it 
resolves.  It provides simply:  "It is hereby agreed by the 
undersigned representative for the Internal Revenue Service 
and Sepedra E. Harrison that the following constitutes a full 
and complete settlement of the alleged issue of discriminated 
[sic] based on Race, Sex and Retaliation."  Precomplaint 
Agreement in the Discrimination Complaint of Sepedra E. 
Harrison 1 (Jan. 6, 1994).  In return for Harrison's promise 
"[n]ot to pursue the matter, which is stated above, in the 
EEO informal or formal process" and "[n]ot to institute any 
further legal, equitable and/or administrative appeals on the 
matter(s) raised," id., the agency agreed to transfer Harrison 
to another position in the IRS's EEO and Diversity Office.  
Following that transfer, the agency's EEO office processed 
Harrison's November 22 formal complaint, eventually dis-
missing it because it "concerns the same matters that were 
the subject of another complaint that was settled."  Letter 
from Michael Morgan-Gaide, Director, Regional Complaint 
Center, Department of the Treasury, to Gregory L. Lattimer, 
Attorney for Sepedra Harrison (Sept. 11, 1995).

Harrison then filed suit in the United States District Court 
for the District of Columbia.  Count one of her complaint 
alleged that the agency's delay in transferring her violated 
the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. s 12101 et seq. 
(1994).  Count two alleged that the delay in granting her a 
transfer amounted to disparate treatment in violation of Title 
VII, 42 U.S.C. s 2000e et seq.  Count three alleged that the 
agency retaliated against her for filing the EEO complaints, 
also in violation of Title VII.  The retaliation count alleged, 
among other things, a physical assault that Harrison claims 
occurred the day after the settlement agreement was signed.  
See 12/16/97 Tr. at 3-4 (quoting Harrison's statement that 
Sincavage reached across his desk and grabbed her wrist as 
she was moving files from the office).

The IRS moved for dismissal or summary judgment, argu-
ing that the ADA does not apply to noncongressional federal 
workers, that the settlement agreement covered all of Harri-
son's Title VII retaliation and discrimination claims, and that 
Harrison failed to state a cause of action based on the alleged 
assault or to exhaust her administrative remedies for that 
claim.  Harrison responded that she had mistakenly cited the 
ADA and sought leave to amend the complaint to allege that 
her disability discrimination claim actually arose under the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. s 791 (1994).  Opposing 
dismissal of her Title VII claims, Harrison submitted an 
affidavit stating that the settlement agreement settled not all 
of her EEO complaints, but only one informal "precomplaint" 
that "addressed specific retaliatory actions that had occurred 
from the time of [the] filing of the November 22 formal 
complaint and November 30, 1993."  Harrison Aff. p 2.  She 
also argued that the settlement agreement could not bar her 
claims regarding the alleged assault because the assault had 
not occurred until after she signed the agreement.

The district court, finding it "too late in the process for 
Plaintiff to amend her complaint," granted the government's 
motion to dismiss her ADA claim.  See Harrison v. Rubin, 
No. 95-2256 (D.D.C. Dec. 19, 1997) ("District Court Order").  
Finding Harrison's retaliation and discrimination claims 
barred by the settlement agreement, the court dismissed the 
remaining counts.  See id.  Harrison appeals both orders.

                                      II
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 15(a) requires that leave to 
file an amended complaint "shall be freely given when justice 
so requires."  Explaining its denial of Harrison's motion to 
amend, the district court stated:  "Two years have passed 
since the filing of her complaint.  The case is nearing trial, 
and the parties have almost concluded their pre-trial discov-
ery.  The Court finds that it is too late in the process for 
Plaintiff to amend her complaint."  District Court Order at 1.  
We review the denial of a motion to amend for abuse of 
discretion.  See Material Supply Int'l, Inc. v. Sunmatch 
Indus. Co., 146 F.3d 983, 991 (D.C. Cir. 1998).

Harrison argues that where as here a plaintiff seeks to 
amend a complaint to add a new legal theory, the district 
court may deny the motion only if the amendment would 
prejudice the defendant.  According to the government, un-
due delay is a permissible basis for denying any motion to 
amend.  The government relies on Foman v. Davis, but that 
case simply reversed a district court's unexplained denial of a 
motion to amend where "the amendment would have done no 
more than state an alternative theory for recovery."  371 U.S. 
178, 182 (1962).  Although this Circuit has recognized undue 
delay as a basis for denying a motion to amend, we have done 
so only where plaintiffs sought to add new factual allegations.  
See, e.g., Williamsburg Wax Museum, Inc. v. Historic Fig-
ures, Inc., 810 F.2d 243, 247 (D.C. Cir. 1987).  Where an 
amendment would do no more than clarify legal theories or 
make technical corrections, we have consistently held that 
delay, without a showing of prejudice, is not a sufficient 
ground for denying the motion.  See, e.g., Material Supply 
Int'l, Inc., 146 F.3d at 991.  As we said in Hanson v. 
Hoffmann, the crux of "the liberal concepts of notice pleading 
embodied in the Federal Rules" is to make the defendant 
aware of the facts.  628 F.2d 42, 53 (D.C. Cir. 1980).  "Unless 
a defendant is prejudiced on the merits by a change in legal 
theory," we explained, "a plaintiff is not bound by the legal 
theory on which he or she originally relied."  Id. at 53 n.11 
(citations omitted).

Applying these standards, we conclude that the district 
court should have granted Harrison's motion to amend to 
substitute the Rehabilitation Act for the ADA.  Harrison 
sought to add no new factual allegations.  In opposing the 
motion, the government claimed no prejudice.  In denying 
the motion, the district court found no prejudice, and for good 
reason:  Claims and defenses under the two statutes are 
virtually identical.  See, e.g., Zukle v. Regents of Univ. of 
Cal., 166 F.3d 1041, 1045 n.11 (9th Cir. 1999) ("There is no 
significant difference in analysis of the rights and obligations 
created by the ADA and the Rehabilitation Act.").

The government nevertheless urges us to affirm the district 
court because in 1996 Harrison's lawyer, after obtaining a 
delay to amend the complaint, told the court:  "I'm not 
amending.  I'm not filing any other lawsuits.  We are going 
forward on this case, and that's it."  4/2/97 Tr. at 4.  But as 
we read the record, counsel's statement had nothing to do 
with his later effort to amend Harrison's complaint to correct 
the erroneous reference to the ADA.  When counsel assured 
the court in 1996 that he was prepared to go forward without 
further amendments, he was referring only to his decision to 
add no other counts or allegations based on Harrison's other 
EEO administrative complaints.  See id. at 2-4.

We reverse the district court's dismissal of Harrison's 
disability discrimination claim and remand for further pro-
ceedings.

                                     III
Challenging the district court's dismissal of her Title VII 
claims, Harrison argues that the Precomplaint Agreement 
settled only an informal complaint concerning certain retalia-
tory acts by Sincavage from November 22 to November 30, 
1993.  According to Harrison, the agreement resolved none of 
the discrimination and retaliation claims included in her No-
vember 22 formal complaint, the basis for this lawsuit.  She 
relies on the following passage from her affidavit:  "[The 
settlement] agreement was only to address the informal 
complaint of December 1, and in no way did it affect the 
formal complaint of November 22."  Harrison Aff. p 4.  Har-
rison also points out that the settlement agreement is titled 
"Precomplaint Agreement," and that "precomplaint" is the 
term used to describe an informal complaint, not a formal 
complaint.

The government originally disagreed with Harrison's posi-
tion.  It argued that the Precomplaint Agreement settled all 
of Harrison's then-pending EEO administrative complaints, 
including the November 22 formal complaint.  It was on the 
basis of this argument that the district court dismissed Harri-
son's Title VII claims.  See District Court Order at 2.

The government has now abandoned this position.  In a 
motion to remand filed just two days before oral argument, 
the government advised us that it now agrees with Harrison 
that "the parties entered into the Settlement Agreement in 
order to settle the claims raised by Appellant in an informal 
complaint pending before the agency" and thus "technically 
settled only one of Appellant's two administrative com-
plaints."  Appellee's Mot. to Remand at 2.  Although the 
government does not tell us which informal complaint it 
believes was settled, it apparently disagrees with Harrison's 
claim that the parties settled only the complaint alleging 
retaliation for having filed the November 22 formal complaint.  
Echoing the reasoning of the agency's EEO office, see supra 
at 4, the government argues that the complaint the parties 
actually settled concerned the same matters that Harrison 
complained about in her November 22 formal complaint and 
that formed the basis of her complaint in district court.  
According to the government, Harrison conceded during ad-
ministrative discovery that the matters she raised in her 
formal complaint and those that she settled in the informal 
complaint were "the same."  Complainant's Interrogatory 
Answers p 24.  Disputing the government's interpretation of 
her "concession," Harrison insists that she meant only that 
the two complaints concerned the same general "matters"--
i.e., discrimination and retaliation--but not the same incidents 
and dates.

We do agree with the government about one thing:  This 
issue requires remand.  In view of the government's change 
in position, no one any longer defends the district court's 
rationale for dismissing the Title VII counts.  Both parties 
agree that the plain language of the settlement agreement is 
ambiguous, and both now resort to extrinsic evidence.

Under these circumstances, we reverse the dismissal of 
Harrison's Title VII claims and remand to the district court 
to determine whether, based on all the evidence, the Precom-
plaint Agreement bars Harrison from pursuing claims based 
on the incidents alleged in her November 22 administrative 
complaint.  If the court concludes that the agreement does 
not bar those claims, then Harrison's allegation of a post-
settlement assault can proceed without regard to her failure 
to exhaust administrative remedies.  See Loe v. Heckler, 768 
F.2d 409, 420 (D.C. Cir. 1985) (where the ends of administra-
tive exhaustion have been served by pursuing administrative 
remedies for the underlying complaint, separate exhaustion of 
administrative remedies for related post-complaint conduct is 
not required);  Webb v. District of Columbia, 864 F. Supp. 
175, 184 (D.D.C. 1994) ("[T]o force an employee to return to 
the state agency and the EEOC every time he claims a new 
instance of discrimination in order to have the courts consider 
the subsequent incidents along with the original ones would 
erect a needless procedural barrier." (internal quotation 
marks and citation omitted)).

     So ordered.



%%%