CASE: ROBERT LEE BROWN v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
No. 2741-01-2
DATE: FEBRUARY 26, 2002
----------
COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA


ROBERT LEE BROWN 
v. 
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA

Present:  Judges Elder, Bray and Annunziata
Argued by teleconference



	MEMORANDUM OPINION* BY
	JUDGE LARRY G. ELDER
								   


	FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF HENRICO COUNTY
Gary A. Hicks, Judge

		Steven A. Witmer, Assistant Attorney General 
(Randolph A. Beales, Attorney General, on 
brief), for appellant.

		Christopher A. Bain (Goodwin, Sutton & DuVal, 
P.L.C., on brief), for appellee.


	Robert Lee Brown (defendant) stands indicted for possession 
of cocaine.  Pursuant to Code  19.2-398, the Commonwealth 
appeals a pretrial ruling granting defendant's motion to 
suppress all evidence resulting from a routine traffic stop 
which he contended evolved into an unlawful seizure.  The trial 
court apparently found that the questioning which led to 
defendant's arrest constituted both an unreasonable seizure and 
a custodial interrogation for which defendant had not been read 
his Miranda rights.  Under the particular facts of this case, we 
hold that the brief stop supported by probable cause and the 
limited questioning which led to defendant's admitting he had 
illegal drugs in his possession violated neither the Fourth nor 
the Fifth Amendment.  Thus, we reverse the trial court's ruling 
and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
I.
BACKGROUND
	On March 28, 2001, while on routine patrol on the interstate 
in Henrico County, State Trooper D.J. Corbett observed a vehicle 
traveling 68 miles per hour in a 55-mile-per-hour zone.  Trooper 
Corbett activated his blue lights, and the vehicle pulled to the 
shoulder and stopped.  Trooper Corbett asked the driver, 
defendant, for his license and registration.  Because the car was 
rented, the rental agreement served as the registration.
Defendant gave Trooper Corbett his license, and while 
defendant was retrieving his rental agreement, Trooper Corbett 
asked him why he was speeding.  Defendant responded that he was 
late for court in New York.  Trooper Corbett asked defendant why 
he was going to court, and defendant replied "that he had a 
possession charge."  Suspecting defendant might have drugs in 
his possession at that time, as well, Trooper Corbett then asked 
defendant, "[W]ell, you don't have anything illegal on your 
person now, do you?"  Defendant said he did, and when Trooper 
Corbett asked him what it was, defendant responded that he had 
some marijuana.  At the time defendant admitted having marijuana 
in his possession, he was still looking for his rental 
agreement.
	Trooper Corbett then asked defendant "if he minded [Trooper 
Corbett's] search[ing] his person."  Defendant responded, "No," 
and said "it was in his left front pants pocket."  Trooper 
Corbett then found a small glass vial containing a powdered 
substance which he concluded was cocaine, and he placed defendant 
under arrest for possessing cocaine.  The arrest occurred five to 
ten minutes after Trooper Corbett first activated his blue lights 
to effect the traffic stop.
	Defendant moved to suppress the evidence.  In granting the 
suppression motion, the trial court concluded that Trooper 
Corbett's questions to defendant about "possession" were not 
supported by reasonable suspicion and, thus, impermissibly 
exceeded the scope of the stop.  It also ruled that by pursuing 
this alternate investigation, Trooper Corbett turned the 
encounter into a custodial interrogation. 
II.
ANALYSIS
	On appeal of a ruling on a motion to suppress, we view the 
evidence in the light most favorable to the prevailing party, 
here the defendant, granting to the evidence all reasonable 
inferences deducible therefrom.  Commonwealth v. Grimstead, 12 
Va. App. 1066, 1067, 407 S.E.2d 47, 48 (1991).  "[W]e are bound 
by the trial court's findings of historical fact unless 'plainly 
wrong' or without evidence to support them," McGee v. 
Commonwealth, 25 Va. App. 193, 198, 487 S.E.2d 259, 261 (1997) 
(en banc), but we review de novo the trial court's application 
of defined legal standards such as probable cause and reasonable 
suspicion to the particular facts of the case, Ornelas v. United 
States, 517 U.S. 690, 699, 116 S. Ct. 1657, 1663, 134 L. Ed. 2d 
911 (1996).
A.
CUSTODIAL INTERROGATION UNDER THE FIFTH AMENDMENT
	Although "Miranda warnings are required whenever a suspect 
is subject to 'custodial interrogation,'" not every detention 
"constitute[s] a custodial interrogation for purposes of 
Miranda."  Cherry v. Commonwealth, 14 Va. App. 135, 140, 415 
S.E.2d 242, 244 (1992) (quoting Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 
436, 444, 86 S. Ct. 1602, 1612, 16 L. Ed. 2d 694 (1966)).
	A routine, roadside traffic stop and 
the usual questioning associated with such a 
brief stop generally will not be considered 
"custodial interrogation" because the 
detention is usually of very short duration 
and the attendant circumstances "are not 
such that the motorist feels completely at 
the mercy of police."  Such stops are 
usually in public and only one or perhaps 
two officers are usually present.  
Consequently, Miranda warnings are not 
required prior to the type [of] questioning 
usually associated with such stops.

Id. at 138-39, 415 S.E.2d at 243-44 (quoting Berkemer v. 
McCarty, 468 U.S. 420, 437-38, 104 S. Ct. 3138, 3148-49, 82 
L. Ed. 2d 317 (1984)) (citation omitted).  Although a stop based 
on reasonable suspicion to conduct a narcotics investigation may 
not be a "routine" traffic stop, it nevertheless does not become 
a custodial interrogation simply because the subject is 
narcotics.  Id.  A suspect is "'in custody' for purposes of 
Miranda [only] if [he] has been arrested or if his freedom of 
action has been curtailed to a degree associated with arrest."  
United States v. Sullivan, 138 F.3d 126, 130 (4th Cir. 1998).
	Here, Trooper Corbett had probable cause to stop defendant 
for speeding.  The stop occurred on the interstate, in public 
view, Trooper Corbett was the only officer at the scene, and the 
stop was brief, lasting no more than five to ten minutes.  
Trooper Corbett immediately requested defendant's driver's 
license and registration and asked him why he was speeding, 
routine actions in a traffic stop.  Defendant indicated he was 
late for a court appearance.  When Corbett inquired about the 
nature of the court appearance, defendant responded that it was 
a possession charge.  Trooper Corbett's inquiry as to whether 
defendant had any illegal substances in his possession at that 
time, although unrelated to the reasons for an ordinary traffic 
stop, did not convert the brief encounter into a formal arrest 
or indicate to defendant that his freedom of movement was being 
curtailed to the degree associated with a formal arrest.
	Thus, although we defer to the trial court's findings of 
fact, we hold as a matter of law that defendant was not subject 
to a custodial interrogation when he admitted having marijuana 
in his possession.
B.
QUESTIONING ABOUT DRUG POSSESSION UNDER THE FOURTH AMENDMENT
	"The 'custody' that implicates the Miranda rule is 
conceptually distinct from a seizure implicating the Fourth 
Amendment. . . .  Even though a routine traffic stop does not 
amount to a custodial detention of the motorist, it does 
constitute a 'seizure' within the meaning of the Fourth 
Amendment."  Sullivan, 138 F.3d at 131.
	An officer may effect a traffic stop when, inter alia, he 
has probable cause to believe a traffic violation has occurred.  
See Dickerson v. Commonwealth, 35 Va. App. 172, 177, 543 S.E.2d 
623, 626 (2001).  He may "request a driver's license, insurance 
papers, vehicle registration, run a computer check thereon, and 
issue a citation."  United States v. Shabazz, 993 F.2d 431, 437 
(5th Cir. 1993).  Once the purpose of the stop has been 
completed, the stop may not be extended absent consent or 
additional information amounting to reasonable suspicion or 
probable cause.  See Dickerson, 35 Va. App. at 178, 543 S.E.2d 
at 626.  However, during the stop, the officer may question the 
person on subjects not directly related to the reasons which 
provided the basis for the stop, even if he lacks reasonable 
suspicion as to the unrelated subjects, as long as "the 
detention to that point continue[s] to be supported by the facts 
that justified its initiation" and "the questioning [does] 
nothing to extend the duration of the initial, valid seizure."  
Shabazz, 993 F.2d at 437 (approving questioning about travel 
plans and request for consent to search from driver stopped for 
speeding while police awaited results of computer check of 
driver's license); see also United States v. Childs, ___ F.3d 
___, ___ (7th Cir. 2002) (en banc); State v. Hickman, 763 A.2d 
330, 336-38 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 2000).  But see United 
States v. Holt, 264 F.3d 1215, 1229-30 (10th Cir. 2001) (en 
banc) (rejecting reasoning of Shabazz).
Here, the evidence establishes that, at the time Trooper 
Corbett asked defendant whether he had "anything illegal on 
[his] person" and defendant responded that he was carrying 
marijuana, defendant was searching for and had not yet found the 
rental car agreement which served as the registration for the 
vehicle.  Thus, the purpose of the stop had not yet been 
achieved when defendant admitted he had marijuana in his 
possession.  The evidence also established that the entire stop, 
from the time Trooper Corbett activated his blue lights until he 
found the cocaine in defendant's pocket, took no more than five 
to ten minutes.  Thus, at the time defendant told Trooper 
Corbett he had marijuana in his possession, which provided 
probable cause to arrest defendant for possession of marijuana, 
"the detention . . . continued to be supported by the facts that 
justified its initiation" and "the questioning did nothing to 
extend the duration of the initial, valid seizure."  Shabazz, 
993 F.2d at 437.
In short, under the facts of this case, Trooper Corbett's 
seizure of the cocaine violated neither the Fourth nor the Fifth 
Amendment.  The questioning which led to the discovery of the 
cocaine occurred during a routine traffic stop supported by 
probable cause, in which Trooper Corbett was entitled to obtain 
defendant's license and registration.  The trooper's inquiry 
regarding whether defendant had anything illegal in his 
possession occurred before defendant had located his vehicle 
registration and, thus, did not unduly prolong the stop.  
Further, this questioning flowed logically from defendant's 
response to the officer's inquiry about why he was speeding and 
involved only a limited number of questions.  Finally, the stop 
was of limited duration, lasting no more than five to ten 
minutes.  Once defendant admitted he had marijuana in his 
possession, Trooper Corbett had probable cause to arrest him for 
that offense and to search him incident to arrest.  Pursuant to 
that search, Trooper Corbett found what he believed to be 
cocaine, giving him probable cause to arrest defendant for 
possession of cocaine.  Thus, we reverse the trial court's 
decision to grant the suppression motion, and we remand for 
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

* Pursuant to Code  17.1-413, this opinion is not 
designated for publication. 
 

%%%
 

